---
layout: page
title: Ledger Security Bulletin 006
summary: OLED screen side-channel vulnerability
---

07 August 2019: OLED screen side-channel vulnerability.



## Summary

A side-channel leakage on the row-based OLED display was found. The power
consumption of each row-based display cycle depends on the number of illuminated
pixels, allowing a partial recovery of display contents. For example, a hardware
implant in the USB cable might be able to leverage this behavior to recover
confidential secrets such as the PIN and BIP39 mnemonic. In other words, the
side-channel is relevant only if the attacker has enough control over the
device's USB connection to make power-consumption measurements and advanced statistical analysis while the secret data is displayed. The side-channel is not relevant in other
circumstances, such as a stolen device that is not currently displaying secret
data.

The MITRE assigned organization assigned the [CVE-2019-14354](#1).



## Technical details

A [blogpost](#2) is already written and explains the technical details of this
vulnerability.

After a thorough review, the vulnerability was considered to be non-critical. To
summarize, the attack scenario detailed below remains theoretical and less
practical than simply installing a camera in a room to read the screen of a
victim’s hardware wallet. Nonetheless, this interesting attack vector is a good
reminder that using your hardware wallet in a secure environment is paramount
for the security of our users’ crypto assets.

Like many hardware wallets, the Ledger Nano S and Ledger Nano X include an OLED
screen to display sensitive information. In the case of Ledger’s products, the
following information is displayed on the screen:

- The confidential recovery phrase during the setup,
- The PIN code entered to unlock the device.

As this information is confidential, we always recommend our users to operate
their devices in a secure environment. In an unsafe place, someone could
eavesdrop and gain access to critical information, and thus to your crypto
assets.

The vulnerability is based on the fact that the common SSD1306 OLED screen type
used in the Ledger Nano S, Nano X and other embedded security devices has an
increased power consumption when displaying screen contents with many bright
pixels. As such, a direct correlation was found between the number of
illuminated pixels on each row of the display and the total power consumption of
the device at a particular moment.

An attacker with the ability to perform a power consumption analysis of the
device while it is displaying secrets on the screen could conceivably use this
partial information of the pixel distribution of each row to recover
confidential information through statistical analysis. In particular, this is
relevant for the 24 seed words or the PIN code.

To exploit this side-channel, the voltage potential over a so-called shunt
resistor in the USB cable towards the target device has to be accurately
measured, which is possible without any modifications to the hardware wallet
itself. In a laboratory setting, this is done via bulky measurement equipment
such as an oscilloscope or software-defined radio.

One could speculate about the fact that the required measurement equipment could
be reduced so far in size that it would fit directly in hollow sections of a
malicious USB cable or a power bank. Although deemed highly impractical, we also
looked into how this type of malicious hardware could, in extreme conditions, be
used to affect end users of the device through a supply-chain attack or evil
maid attack. No evidence was found of the existence of such a hardware implant.



## Impact on Ledger devices

### Ledger Nano S and Ledger Nano X

The present vulnerability is theoretically possible, but it has not been
demonstrated in practice. Using it to attack users would be less practical than
installing a hidden camera to record the user while entering the PIN code or
initializing the seed.

Users of Ledger Nano S and Ledger Nano X should update their hardware wallets
with upcoming firmware updates, to be released in Q4 2019. We further recommend
users to set up their hardware wallets by themselves, in a safe place, and
storing the recovery phrase securely


### Ledger Blue

The Ledger Blue is not affected. The screen vulnerability applies to OLED
screens and the Ledger Blue features an LCD screen.



## Credits

We would like to thank the security researcher Christian Reitter who discovered
the vulnerability and reported it through our bug bounty program. We also thank
him for reaching out to impacted vendors and coordinating with Ledger to
facilitate the disclosure process.



## References

1. <a name="1"></a> [CVE-2019-14354](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-14354)
2. <a name="2"></a> [OLED screen (minor) vulnerability - Ledger Donjon](https://ledger-donjon.github.io/oled-vuln/)
