---
layout: page
title: Ledger Security Bulletin 008
summary: Monero private key retrieval
---

27 April 2020: Monero private key retrieval.


## Summary

The [7th Ledger Security Bulletin](#1) describes a replay vulnerability in the
Monero app leading to the retrieval of a private spend key. Another
vulnerability leading to the same private key retrieval was found by Dušan
Klinec.

The MITRE assigned organization assigned the [CVE-2020-6861](#4) and Dušan
Klinec wrote a [blogpost](#2) explaining the technical details of this
vulnerability.


## Observations and Notations

During a transaction, some computational elements are encrypted by the Nano with
a key only known to the Monero application, and sent to the desktop client for
later use, due to space limitations on the Nano. Let $enc(x)$ be the encryption
of $x$.

Such elements are associated with an HMAC with a key that is dedicated to the
current transaction. Let $henc(x)$ be a pair $(enc(x), hmac(enc(x)))$.

Two specific values `00...00h` and `FF...FFh` are used to respectively identify
the view key and the spend key. Those two values are named `C_FAKE_SEC_VIEW_KEY`
and `C_FAKE_SEC_SPEND_KEY`.

In the general case, the secret view key $a$ is public and exported from the
device upon request to the user. $henc(a)$ and $henc(b)$ are also known, as
those are returned by the device when a transaction is started with the
`monero_apdu_open_tx` command.

Finally, with the notations:

- $P$: point
- $x$, $y$, $alpha$, $ss$, $c$: scalar
- $a$: scalar, private view key
- $b$: scalar, private spend key
- $l$: scalar, curve order

the subsequent two attacks rely on the following commands:

- `monero_apdu_sc_sub`: $henc(x), henc(y) \rightarrow henc(x-y)$
- `monero_apdu_generate_key_derivation`: $P, henc(x) \rightarrow henc(8x.P)$
- `monero_apdu_derive_secret_key`: $henc(P), index, \text{C_FAKE_SEC_SPEND_KEY} \rightarrow henc(\text{Keccak}(P \mathbin\Vert index)+b)$
- `monero_apdu_mlsag_sign`: $henc(alpha), henc(x) \rightarrow ss = (alpha - c * x) \mod l$


## Attack Details

### Method 1

This method consists of first building a full encryption oracle and then use it
to retrieve the secret spend key $b$.

#### Step 1: take control of zero

First, `monero_apdu_sc_sub` is called with $henc(x)$ for both arguments and
returns:

$\text{monero_apdu_sc_sub}(henc(a), henc(a)) = henc(0)$

A valid pair {$0$, $henc(0)$} can be injected in any command. Having the control
of this zero value is important since it allows canceling parts of any other
command's intermediate computation.

#### Step 2: decryption oracle

Controlling the zero value, a decryption oracle can be built using the
`monero_apdu_mlsag_sign` command. The command can be called in the following way
or any $henc(x)$ to retrieve $x$:

$$\text{monero_apdu_mlsag_sign}(henc(x), henc(0)) = x-c * 0 = x$$

At this point, a decryption oracle is available.

#### Step 3 : Retrieving the spend key

The final step involves `monero_apdu_derive_secret_key`. Let $fsk$ be the fake
spend key `C_FAKE_SEC_SPEND_KEY`:

$\text{monero_apdu_derive_secret_key}(henc(0), 0, fsk)$

$$ = \text{Keccak}(0 \mathbin\Vert 0) + b = hmac(sk)$$

$sk$ being the _spend key_.

So using the decryption oracle from step 2, $sk$ can be decrypted to get:

$b = sk - \text{Keccak}(0 \mathbin\Vert  b0)$.

where `b` is the private spend key.

### Method 2

Removing `monero_apdu_sc_sub` (and `monero_apdu_sc_add`) from the protocol
prevents the previous attack, but a more complicated one is still possible.

#### Step 1

Let's assume that the private view key $a$ is already known, meaning that the
user has accepted to export it.

Without the need of the device, a scalar $x$ can be found such that:

$$P = (8 x.a).G$$
$$= (8x).a.G$$
$$= 8x.A$$

and:

- `encoded_P = encode_point(P)`
- `encoded_P = encode_scalar(decode_scalar(P))`

Which means that P can be considered both as a valid input point and a valid
scalar with no reduction modulo the order of the curve.

#### Step 2

Deriving the generated point $P$ at step 1:

$\text{monero_apdu_generate_key_derivation}(P=x.G, henc(a))$

The app computes:

- $a \leftarrow henc(a)$
- $8a.x.G = (8x).a.G = 8x.A$

which equals $P$ by definition above. The output is then $henc(P)$, hence we learn a valid set $\{P, enc(P), hmac(P)\}$.

#### Step 3

`monero_apdu_derive_secret_key` can be called with the following parameter:

$\text{monero_apdu_derive_secret_key}(henc(P), 0, henc(b))$

$$sk = \text{Keccak}(P v0) + b = henc(sk)$$

### Step 4 : spend key extraction

Finally, `monero_apdu_mlsag_sign` allows to retrieve the spend key based on the
value obtained at step 2 and 3, and by using $P$ as a simple 256 bits scalar:

$\text{monero_apdu_mlsag_sign}(henc(sk), henc(P))$

$$ss = sk-c * P$$

`P` is considered a simple scalar in the above.

Now, recall that:

$$sk = \text{Keccak}(P \mathbin\Vert 0) + b$$

and `P` is known.

So replacing $sk$ in the previous computation results in:

$$ss = \text{Keccak}(P \mathbin\Vert 0) + b - c \times P$$

and thus:

$$b = ss - \text{Keccak}(P \mathbin\Vert 0) + c \times P$$.

So again, the spend key $b$ is retrieved.


## Impact

Those vulnerabilities allow extracting a user's Monero private spend key through
a malicious Monero client. Being a flaw in the protocol between the Nano
application and the Monero desktop client, it affects both Nano S and Nano X
users.


## Remediation

The vulnerability is fixed from Monero version 1.5.1. The specification update
can be found on [GitHub](#3) and the following changes were made:

- The `monero_apdu_secret_sub` has been removed from the application.
- A strict state machine check has been added, to avoid using a command outside
  of its expected operating context.
- The computation of HMAC was changed to embed a type tag, avoiding type
  confusion. Some specific HMACS also embed a state machine tag.
- A better user interaction has been set up to request the user to confirm any
  transaction start.


## Credits

We would like to thank the security researcher Dušan Klinec for the discovery of
these vulnerabilities, his high quality report and also for his help.


## References

1. <a name="1"></a> [LSB 7 - Monero private key retrieval](https://donjon.ledger.com/lsb/007)
2. <a name="2"></a> [Ledger Monero App Spend key Extraction](https://deadcode.me/blog/2020/04/25/Ledger-Monero-app-spend-key-extraction.html)
3. <a name="3"></a> [Monero Application Commands](https://github.com/LedgerHQ/ledger-app-monero/blob/master/doc/developer/blue-app-commands.rst)
3. <a name="4"></a> [CVE-2020-6861](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-6861)
