---
layout: page
title: Ledger Security Bulletin 011
summary: XRP account misuse and transaction malleability
---

9 June 2020: XRP account misuse and transaction malleability


## Summary

The XRP App for Ledger Nano was found to be vulnerable to an account misuse and
a transaction malleability vulnerability.


## Account misuse

### Technical Details

An account in the blockchain named “XRP Ledger” is made of one or more ways to
authorize transactions, usually a master key pair which can't be changed. A
secondary key pair, called a [regular key pair](#1), can also be authorized to
sign transactions while keeping the master key pair offline.

A transaction has, among other [fields](#2), an `Account` and a `SigningPubKey`
fields. The `SigningPubKey` field is the representation of the public key that
corresponds to the private key used to sign a transaction. This key [must](#5)
either be the master key or the regular key associated to the `Account` field.

An attacker might trick a user into signing a transaction with a different
account than the one displayed on the client software, because the `Account`
field wasn't displayed by the XRP app.

### Impact

An attacker having compromised a user client software might trick him into
confirming a transaction signed with another account than the one expected,
leading to funds being transfered from this account instead of the expected one.

On a single Ledger Nano device (or on several devices initialized with the same
seed), an attacker can replace the `Account` field of a transaction with another
one derived from the same seed.

An attacker can also replace the `Account` field of a transaction with one to
which the account is authorized as regular key.


## Transaction malleability

### Technical Details

From the [XRP documentation](#2), every transaction has the same set of common
fields. The `Flags` field can contain various options that affect how a
transaction should behave. If set, the global flag `tfFullyCanonicalSig`
requires a fully canonical signature, otherwise it is theoretically possible for
a malicious actor to modify a transaction signature so that the transaction
may succeed with a different hash than expected. Transactions signed using the
XRP app didn't require the `tfFullyCanonicalSig` flag to be set.

### Impact

An attacker having compromised the user client can create a transaction without
the `tfFullyCanonicalSig` flag set. Once the transaction is signed and
propagated to the network, it is theoretically possible for an attacker to try
to win a race condition and trick the victim into seeing the
[transaction as failed](#3).

It doesn't seem to have security consequences in our opinion. Moreover the
chances for an attacker to win the race and have an alternate transaction
confirmed are low. They can be increased if some number of well-connected
servers in the peer-to-peer network are controlled by the attackers, even if
those servers are not trusted as validator.


## Remediation

Both vulnerabilities were fixed in the latest version (2.0.1) of the XRP app. A
new [XRP amendment](#6) should also enforce fully canonical signatures on all
transactions at a protocol level.


## Credits

We would like to thank the security researchers Patrik Sletmo and Markus Alvila
from Towo Labs, who discovered the vulnerabilities and reported them through our
bug bounty program.


## References

1. <a name="1"></a> [XRP Ledger - Assign a Regular Key Pair](https://xrpl.org/assign-a-regular-key-pair.html)
2. <a name="2"></a> [XRP Ledger - Transaction Common Fields](https://xrpl.org/transaction-common-fields.html#global-flags)
3. <a name="3"></a> [XRP Ledger - Transaction Malleability](https://xrpl.org/transaction-malleability.html#exploit-with-malleable-transactions)
4. <a name="4"></a> [XRP Ledger - Known Amendments](https://xrpl.org/known-amendments.html#requirefullycanonicalsig)
5. <a name="5"></a> [Transactor.cpp](https://github.com/ripple/rippled/blob/c624fc9b17644fab9dc6b7419e5cdd76841cfdbc/src/ripple/app/tx/impl/Transactor.cpp#L392-L401)
