---
layout: page
title: Ledger Security Bulletin 021
summary: Missing parameter validation during MCU firmware update
---

10 January 2025: Missing parameter validation during MCU firmware update.

## Summary

A  vulnerability was identified in the firmware update process, allowing an attacker to set an arbitrary `reset_handler` address during firmware flashing. The absence of validation lead to permanently **bricking the device**.


The impact is limited to device operability. Client funds have never been at risk.

---

## Description

During firmware updates, the bootloader expects the host to provide a `reset_handler` address indicating where execution should resume after flashing is complete.

This value is not validated by the bootloader. As a result, an attacker can provide a crafted address pointing either to invalid memory (causing an unrecoverable crash) or to attacker-controlled code (enabling code execution at boot).

If the address points to an invalid or non-executable region, the device may enter an unrecoverable fault state during boot. This results in a **permanent brick**, where both external interfaces become unresponsive, and the device cannot be restored without specialized tools and factory-level access.

This flaw originates from the lack of basic checks (e.g., range, alignment, signature validation) on a critical control flow parameter during the update process.

---

## Remediation

The vulnerability has been fixed by enforcing strict validation of the `reset_handler` field during firmware updates. The  `reset_handler` command is now part of the signed communication flow.

This fix is included in versions `Nano X >= 2.4.2, Flex >= 1.2.2, Stax >= 1.6.2` and all later firmware releases. Users are advised to keep their device firmware up to date.

---

## Credits

We would like to thank **Guanxing Wen**, who responsibly disclosed this vulnerability via Ledger’s Bug Bounty program.

