---
layout: page
title: Ledger Security Bulletin #001
summary: Padding oracle attack on SCP
---

20 March 2018: Padding oracle attack on SCP.



## Summary

A padding oracle attack was found on the Secure Channel established between the
device and Ledger's HSM. It allows an attacker to decrypt the firmware updates.



## Technical details

A [blogpost](#1) is already written and explains the technical details of this
vulnerability.


### Loading and upgrading BOLOS

The load and upgrade of BOLOS is performed using a Secure Channel. It's inspired
from the Global Platform SCP-02 standard, modified by replacing T-DES with AES.
This protocol guarantees authenticity and confidentiality. It's based on an
*Encrypt then MAC* scheme.

When BOLOS needs to be upgraded, a secure channel is established between the
Secure Element of the device and Ledger's HSM. This channel allows to send our
firmware in an encrypted way. Furthermore, it also allows the HSM to attest the
Ledger device to which it's connected is genuine. Finally, the firmware
authenticity is proven using a standard signature. The modified version of our
SCP-02 we implemented did not embed the MAC part allowing a padding oracle
attack.


### Padding oracle attack

The [padding oracle attack](#1) is a famous cryptographic attack discovered in
2002 by Serge Vaudenay. It allows an attacker to know  whether the padding of an
encrypted message is correct or not. This mechanism allows to decrypt the
datastream without actually knowing the key being used. Mounting this attack can
be a bit tricky, especially considering that the throughput of the leakage is
very low.

In our case, the researcher demonstrated that it was possible to mount the attack
but was only able to retrieve a few bytes of the datastream.

He worked a lot on understanding our protocol and how the secure channel is
mounted. It consists first on an ECDH to share a common secret which is used
afterwards as the key for the AES-CBC. The IV is initially 0x0. The padding
check is performed by the device, if it's not found, a status error is raised
0x6802, otherwise, the message is handled normally.

To implement it, it's necessary to brute force all possible value of a byte
paddings so that the guessed plaintext byte turns into a 0x80, mounting another
Secure Channel each time in order to retrieve which one gives the correct
message. The throughput is thus very low since our HSM is shared with all our
users and mostly because there are a lot of different padding values to test.


### Countermeasure

The SCP implementation has been updated to add the MAC part which prevents this
kind of attack. Furthermore, additional countermeasures have been implemented
server side mitigating the issue until the 1.4.1 upgrade is available.



## Impact on Ledger devices

There is no impact regarding the security of the device. Ledger don't base the
security of its devices on the confidentiality of the firmware. Decrypting the
firmware doesn't give attackers any information on the seed/secret data.

On the contrary, what is important from a user perspective is to be able to
prove the genuineness of the device and the authenticity of the firmware. Those
two security claims remain intact.



## Credits

We would like to thank the security researcher Timothée Isnard who discovered
the vulnerability and reported it through our bug bounty program. We also thank
him for his good work, his help and his professionalism through the disclosure
process.



## References

1. <a name="1"></a> [Firmware 1.4: deep dive into three vulnerabilities which have been fixed - Ledger](https://www.ledger.com/firmware-1-4-deep-dive-security-fixes/)
2. <a name="2"></a> [Padding oracle attack - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Padding_oracle_attack)
