---
layout: page
title: Ledger Security Bulletin 010
summary: Massive transaction fees in BTC app and derivative
---

3 June 2020: Massive transaction fees in BTC app and derivative.


## Summary

A vulnerability was found in the implementation of [BIP-143](#1), affecting the
Bitcoin app and its derivative. It allows an attacker to increase transaction
fees without confirmation on the device.


## Impact

This vulnerability allows an attacker having compromised the client software of
a user to increase transaction fees without confirmation on the device. The user
should be tricked into signing a transaction at least twice, which isn't an
unrealistic scenario because the first transaction can be aborted pretending
there was an error. A successful exploitation results in the loss of funds for
the user. The attacker can also collude with a miner to profit from the
transaction fees.

All Bitcoin forks with SegWit support are impacted, as well as apps with BIP-143
support:

- Bitcoin (BTC)
- Bitcoin Cash (BCH)
- Bitcoin Gold (BTG)
- Digibyte (DGB)
- Komodo (KMD)
- Litecoin (LTC)
- GameCredit (GAME)
- NIX
- Qtum
- Vertcoin (VTC)
- Viacoin (VIA)
- XSN
- ZCash
- ZClassic (ZCL)

The vulnerability is fixed from version 1.4.0 of the Bitcoin app (being used as
a library by the other apps.)

It's worth noting that several hardware wallets implementation are affected even
if this issue has been publicly [discussed]([#2]) a few years ago.


## Credits

We would like to thank the security researcher Saleem Rashid who discovered the
vulnerability and reported it through our bug bounty program.


## References

1. <a name="1"></a> [BIP-143: Transaction Signature Verification for Version 0 Witness Program](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0143.mediawiki)
2. <a name="2"></a> [BIP Proposal - Partially Signed Bitcoin Transaction (PSBT) format](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2017-August/014843.html)
